README.md, before:

# Cross Account Plugin for AWS CDK

The [AWS CDK](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/index.html) is great. However, some complicated authentication schemes are not supported natively, but can be implemented using [plugins](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/latest/typescript/api/aws-cdk/plugin.html). For client work, I needed to be able to support multiple profiles, each with a different IAM role to assume, and MFA in one shot. Also supported is AWS SSO.

There are existing community projects for CDK authentication plugins. Inexplicably they did not work, and in the course of studying the code for debugging, I ended up creating my own plugin that worked the way I wanted.

**Prior Art:** [CDK plugins on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/search?q=cdk%20plugin)

---
**Update February 2021:** This plugin is currently maintained and in production use. Do not be alarmed by the lack of activity. As of right now, it has no known bugs and is working well with the most recent CDK releases such as 1.88.0

---

## Background

So what does this do? I have my `$HOME/.aws/config` set up with profiles for client environments. Those profiles include assuming an IAM role in a given account, and an associated MFA challenge. At a basic level, using the AWS_PROFILE=**** environment variable for command line work in connection with the CLI works fine for simple tasks. For complex multi-account projects using the CDK, the AWS_PROFILE variable falls short.

In a CDK project, I may have several accounts set up as shown:

```python
# Define environments
env_development = core.Environment(
    account=context_group_dev.account_id,
    region=context_group_dev.region)

env_production = core.Environment(
    account=context_group_prod.account_id,
    region=context_group_prod.region)
```

When using this cross account plugin, the CDK will evaluate which account credentials are needed according to the stacks I am deploying. The instructions below will show how to provide plugin specific config to associate an account ID with a named profile.

An added bonus is that this plugin _will locally cache the temporary credentials_ so that you do not need to repeatedly enter the MFA challenge token. Great for CDK debugging and iterating on stacks.

One caveat is to be aware of _cross-account_ _cross-stack_ references are not supported with CloudFormation. The temptation is real thinking you can get away with it, but CDK will sort it out and throw an error. So if you have a resource in one account that supports sharing across boundaries to another account, consider moving those outputs to context variables instead of relying on CDK output autowiring.

## How to Use

### Step 1

Assuming you have already installed the CDK, the plugin can be installed with `npm i -g cdk-cross-account-plugin aws-sdk`. This also assumes that you have `config` and `credentials` configured the way you want in `$HOME/.aws`.

### Step 2

Update `cdk.json` by adding a `plugin` array property, and a `crossAccountConfig` block. Example:

```javascript
{
  "app": "python3 app.py",

  // Active the plugin
  "plugin": ["cdk-cross-account-plugin"],

  // Add the "crossAccountConfig" block to map to each AWS account number
  // that you will be deploying resources to
  "crossAccountConfig": {
    "account-id-1": {
      "profile": "dev" // The name of the profile for obtaining session credentials
    },
    "account-id-2": {
      "profile": "prod"
    }   
  },
  
  // Other stuff like existing context values
}
```

## AWS SSO Support

You can use AWS SSO for credentials and roles as long as you are using AWS CLI v2.

First, follow the [instructions provided by AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-sso.html) to setup profiles specifically for SSO. When the process is complete, you should be able to see those profiles in `$HOME/.aws/config`. You can specify those profiles in the `crossAccountConfig` block as explained in the previous section. The plugin will automatically detect if it is an SSO config, and apply a different behavior to assume the intended IAM role. Once credentials are obtained, local caching is used until they expire.

**Example Profile:**

```
[profile sso-dev]
sso_start_url = https://yourorg.awsapps.com/start
sso_region = us-west-2
sso_account_id = account-id-1
sso_role_name = YourIAMRole
region = us-west-2
output = json
```

Once SSO is configured, before you start using the CDK, run `aws sso login --profile profile-name-here`, and complete the authentication process. Once successful, you can start using the CDK right away.

If you are using SSO with multiple accounts and roles, it is expected that you will have a profile configured for each one.

## Debugging

`export DEBUG=cdk-cross-account-plugin` to activate internal logging of plugin activity to the command line.

## Roadmap

- [x] ~~Will be looking into if AWS SSO can be supported~~ **Delivered with version 2.0**

Commit message:

Updated comment on multi-account profile config

README.md, after:

# Cross Account Plugin for AWS CDK

The [AWS CDK](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/index.html) is great. However, some complicated authentication schemes are not supported natively, but can be implemented using [plugins](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/latest/typescript/api/aws-cdk/plugin.html). For client work, I needed to be able to support multiple profiles, each with a different IAM role to assume, and MFA in one shot. Also supported is AWS SSO.

There are existing community projects for CDK authentication plugins. Inexplicably they did not work, and in the course of studying the code for debugging, I ended up creating my own plugin that worked the way I wanted.

**Prior Art:** [CDK plugins on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/search?q=cdk%20plugin)

---
**Update February 2021:** This plugin is currently maintained and in production use. Do not be alarmed by the lack of activity. As of right now, it has no known bugs and is working well with the most recent CDK releases such as 1.88.0

---

## Background

So what does this do? I have my `$HOME/.aws/config` set up with profiles for client environments. Those profiles include assuming an IAM role in a given account, and an associated MFA challenge. At a basic level, using the AWS_PROFILE=**** environment variable for command line work in connection with the CLI works fine for simple tasks. For complex multi-account projects using the CDK, the AWS_PROFILE variable falls short.

In a CDK project, I may have several accounts set up as shown:

```python
# Define environments
env_development = core.Environment(
    account=context_group_dev.account_id,
    region=context_group_dev.region)

env_production = core.Environment(
    account=context_group_prod.account_id,
    region=context_group_prod.region)
```

When using this cross account plugin, the CDK will evaluate which account credentials are needed according to the stacks I am deploying. The instructions below will show how to provide plugin specific config to associate an account ID with a named profile.

An added bonus is that this plugin _will locally cache the temporary credentials_ so that you do not need to repeatedly enter the MFA challenge token. Great for CDK debugging and iterating on stacks.

One caveat is to be aware of _cross-account_ _cross-stack_ references are not supported with CloudFormation. The temptation is real thinking you can get away with it, but CDK will sort it out and throw an error. So if you have a resource in one account that supports sharing across boundaries to another account, consider moving those outputs to context variables instead of relying on CDK output autowiring.

## How to Use

### Step 1

Assuming you have already installed the CDK, the plugin can be installed with `npm i -g cdk-cross-account-plugin aws-sdk`. This also assumes that you have `config` and `credentials` configured the way you want in `$HOME/.aws`.

### Step 2

Update `cdk.json` by adding a `plugin` array property, and a `crossAccountConfig` block. Example:

```javascript
{
  "app": "python3 app.py",

  // Active the plugin
  "plugin": ["cdk-cross-account-plugin"],

  // Add the "crossAccountConfig" block to map to each AWS account number
  // that you will be deploying resources to
  "crossAccountConfig": {
    "account-id-1": {
      "profile": "dev" // The name of the profile for obtaining session credentials
    },
    "account-id-2": {
      "profile": "prod"
    }   
  },
  
  // Other stuff like existing context values
}
```

## AWS SSO Support

You can use AWS SSO for credentials and roles as long as you are using AWS CLI v2.

First, follow the [instructions provided by AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-sso.html) to setup profiles specifically for SSO. When the process is complete, you should be able to see those profiles in `$HOME/.aws/config`. You can specify those profiles in the `crossAccountConfig` block as explained in the previous section. The plugin will automatically detect if it is an SSO config, and apply a different behavior to assume the intended IAM role. Once credentials are obtained, local caching is used until they expire.

**Example Profile:**

```
[profile sso-dev]
sso_start_url = https://yourorg.awsapps.com/start
sso_region = us-west-2
sso_account_id = account-id-1
sso_role_name = YourIAMRole
region = us-west-2
output = json
```

Once SSO is configured, before you start using the CDK, run `aws sso login --profile profile-name-here`, and complete the authentication process. Once successful, you can start using the CDK right away.

If you are using SSO with multiple accounts and roles, you can define a profile configuration for each account and role combination. If you are able to assume the same role/SSO permission set across multiple accounts, then one profile configuration may suffice.

## Debugging

`export DEBUG=cdk-cross-account-plugin` to activate internal logging of plugin activity to the command line.

## Roadmap

- [x] ~~Will be looking into if AWS SSO can be supported~~ **Delivered with version 2.0**
